.\" lingmo-app-widget manual page
.\"
.\" This is free software; you may redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2,
.\" or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
.\"with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
.\"51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.
.\"
.TH LINGMO-APP-WIDGET 1 "05 Apr 2023" "LINGMO Desktop Environment"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.SH "NAME"
lingmo-app-widget \- The LINGMO Desktop for qml
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B lingmo-app-widget [OPTIONS]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
lingmo-app-widget is a qml appwidget framework. It can display a view for quick browsing, which is mainly to display the most important data and functions of the application.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
\fB\-\-display=DISPLAY\fR
X display to use.
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-daemon\fR
Don't start as a daemon
.TP
\fB\-\-debug\fR
Enable debugging messages for \fBlingmo-screensaver\fP
.TP
\fB\-\-version\fR
Output version information and exit.
.TP
\fB\-h, \-\-help\fR
Print standard command line options.
.TP
\fB\-\-help\-all\fR
Print all command line options.
.P
This program also accepts the standard GTK options.
.SH "BUGS"
.SS Should you encounter any bugs, they may be reported at: 
https://gitee.com/lingmo/lingmo-app-widget/issues
.SH "AUTHORS"
.SS lingmo-app-widget is maintained by:
.nf
Yan Wang <wangyan@kylinos.cn>
.fi
.SS This Man Page has been updated for the LINGMO Desktop Environment by:
Yan Wang <wangyan@kylinos.cn> (2023)
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.SS Further information may also be available at: http://wiki.lingmo-desktop.org/docs
.P
.BR gtk-options (7)
