.\" live-tools(7) - System Support Scripts
.\" Copyright (C) 2016-2020 The Debian Live team
.\" Copyright (C) 2006-2013 Daniel Baumann <mail@daniel-baumann.ch>
.\"
.\" This program comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY; for details see COPYING.
.\" This is free software, and you are welcome to redistribute it
.\" under certain conditions; see COPYING for details.
.\"
.\"
.TH LIVE\-TOOLS 7 2015\-09\-25 5.0~a2-1 "Debian Live Project"

.SH NAME
\fBlive\-tools\fR \- System Support Scripts

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBlive\-tools\fR contains additional support scripts for live systems.

.SH TOOLS
\fBlive\-tools\fR currently contains the following tools.

.IP "\fBlive\-update\-initramfs\fR(8)" 4
writes out updated kernel and initrd images to the live media. This wrapper replaces the update\-initramfs command provided by the initramfs\-tools package.
.IP "\fBlive\-update\-initramfs\-uuid\fR" 4
updates UUID in an existing initramfs image.
.IP "\fBlive\-toram\fR" 4
copies running system to RAM in order to eject the live media.
.IP "\fBlive\-system\fR" 4
determines if running system is a live system.
.IP "\fBlive\-persistence\fR(1)" 4
switches a non\-persistent system to using persistence at runtime.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fIlive\-boot\fR(7)
.PP
\fIlive\-build\fR(7)
.PP
\fIlive\-config\fR(7)

.SH HOMEPAGE
More information about live\-tools and the Debian Live project can be found on the homepage at <\fIhttps://wiki.debian.org/DebianLive\fR> and in the manual at <\fIhttps://live-team.pages.debian.net/live-manual/\fR>.

.SH BUGS
Bugs can be reported by submitting a bugreport for the live\-tools package in the Bug Tracking System at <\fIhttp://bugs.debian.org/\fR> or by writing a mail to the Debian Live mailing list at <\fIdebian\-live@lists.debian.org\fR>.

.SH AUTHOR
live\-tools was written by Daniel Baumann <\fImail@daniel-baumann.ch\fR>.
