*** Wordlists

Wordlists are simple text file containing a list of words not
contained in aspell-lang dictionary.


*** Creating language custom wordlists

* Encoding

Encoding is specified in the language.dat file contained in the
aspell-lang source package.

Every wordlist has to be encoded as specified in the lang.dat file,
so for example "fr" and "it" use iso-8859-1, whereas "ro" uses
iso-8859-2 and "el" uses iso8859-7. To find out the encoding utilised
for a particular language, you can either look the lang.dat file
contained in the source of aspell-lang, or run the following commands
(aspell-lang has to be already installed on the system):

# This should find out where dictionaries are stored
DICT_DIR=$(aspell dump config | grep "actual-dict-dir")

# This should show  the content of the dat file
cat ${DICT_DIR}/lang.dat 

As for aspell-0.5x, custom wordlists for a certain language, inherit
their properties (not only the encoding) from the lang.dat file: this
means that if you want to use words containing special characters (as
"-" or ".") you should make sure it is possible to do so.
The following command can be use to test it (the sed command is used
to filter out comments starting with a '#' character):

cat lang_wl.txt | sed "s:\(^#.*\)::" | aspell --lang=lang create master ./lang_wl


*** common wordlist

The common wordlist has to work with all languages, so it must be
generic as not to break any local rule; every language-specific
wordlist, before being compiled, is merged with the common wordlists:

cat lang_wl.txt common_wl.txt > lang_prj_wl.txt

*all* the language-specific lists (including those not configured as
to use special chars)... that's why you cannot use special characters
in it and you have to include them in the 

> you cannot use special chars such as "-" or "." in the common wl all 
> words containing such chars have to be in the language-specific wl
> 

