.TH KERNEL\-WEDGE\-GEN\-CONTROL 1 "June 2019" "Kernel-wedge"
.SH NAME
kernel\-wedge\-gen\-control \- generate debian/control file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kernel\-wedge gen\-control
.SH DESCRIPTION
Generate a debian/control from the control stub, the kernel\-versions
files, and the package\-list files.

For each kernel version and flavour, and for each module list defined
for that flavour, \fBgen\-control\fR will create a binary package control
paragraph.  This is normally based on a template in the package\-list
in the default-configuration directory.

Templates are processed as follows:

.IP 1. 4
For each standard control field \fIname\fR, copy the template control
field \fIname\fR_\fIflavour\fR, \fIname\fR_\fIarch\fR_\fIflavour\fR,
\fIname\fR_\fIarch\fR, or \fIname\fR (in descending order of priority).
.IP 2. 4
Append the kernel version and flavour to package names in the
Package and Depends fields.
.IP 3. 4
Stop processing the package if it has been excluded.
.IP 4. 4
Set the Architecture, Package\-Type, Kernel\-Version, and Section
fields automatically.
.IP 5. 4
Remove any package that is not going to be built from the Depends
field.  This can be overridden by adding a "!" to the dependency
name.
.IP 6. 4
Add the original (unsuffixed) package name to the Provides field.
.IP 7. 4
Emit the processed control paragraph.
.RE

The package\-list in the configuration directory may add new package
templates or override template field values.  For example:

.RS 4
.EX
# This file is used to build up the control file. The kernel version and
# "\-di" are appended to the package names. Section can be left out. So can
# architecture, which is derived from the files in the modules directory.
# It overwrites specifications from /usr/share/kernel\-wedge/package\-list.
Package: fat\-modules
Priority: standard

Package: nic\-modules
Depends: kernel\-image, nic\-shared\-modules, core\-modules, firewire\-core\-modules

Package: other\-modules
Depends: kernel\-image
Description: some other modules I like to have in the installer
.EE
.RE

The configuration directory may have an exclude\-packages file that
lists any udebs (by full package name) that would normally be built,
but should be excluded from the control file.
.SH AUTHOR
Joey Hess, Ben Hutchings <ben@decadent.org.uk>
