.\" $RCSfile: gencat.1,v $$Revision: 1.1 $$Date$
.\"
.\" $Log: gencat.1,v $
.\" Revision 1.1  2003/11/03 17:37:27  jbailey
.\"     - debian/local/manpages/gencat.1: New file.
.\"     - debian/local/manpages/trace.1: New file.
.\"     - debian/debhelper.in/libc-dev.manpages: Install them.
.\"     - debian/local/manpages/iconvconfig.8: New file.
.\"     - debian/debhelper.in/libc.manpages: Install it.
.\"
.\" Revision 1.1.2.2  2003/10/28 05:48:08  dan
.\"     - Re-add debian/patches/80_glibc232-locales-nb_NO-fix.dpatch, which had
.\"       gotten lost.
.\"     - Re-add typo fixes to iconv.1 and rpcgen.1.
.\"     - Merge iconv.1 fix to iconv.pod.
.\"     - Fix ld.so name in ld.so.8.
.\"     - Re-add fix for locale-gen and POSIXLY_CORRECT.
.\"
.\"
.\"	If the F register is turned on, we'll generate
.\"	index entries out stderr for the following things:
.\"		TH	Title
.\"		SH	Header
.\"		Sh	Subsection
.\"		Ip	Item
.\"		X<>	Xref  (embedded
.\"	Of course, you have to process the output yourself
.\"	in some meaningful fashion.
.if \nF \{\
.de IX
.tm Index:\\$1\t\\n%\t"\\$2"
..
.nr % 0
.rr F
.\}
.TH GENCAT 1 "November 2003" "gencat (glibc)" Debian
.UC
.SH NAME
gencat \- Generate message catalog
.SH SYNOPSIS
gencat [OPTION ...\&] \-o OUTPUT-FILE [INPUT-FILE ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBgencat\fR program is specified in the X/Open standard and the
GNU implementation follows this specification and so processes all
correctly formed input files.
Additionally some extension are implemented
which help to work in a more reasonable way with the \fBcatgets\fR(3) functions.
.TP
\fB\-H\fR, \fB\-\-header\fR \fINAME\fR
Create C header file NAME containing symbol definitions
.TP
\fB\-\-new\fR
Do not use existing catalog, force new output file
.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-output\fR \fINAME\fR
Write output to file NAME
.SH AUTHOR
\fIgencat\fR was written by Ulrich Drepper as part of the GNU C Library.
.PP
This man page was written by Jeff Bailey <jbailey@debian.org>.
.IX Title "GENCAT 1"
.IX Name "gencat - Generate message catalog"

.IX Header "NAME"

.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"

.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"

.IX Header "AUTHOR"

