.TH SOTRUSS "1" "May 2014" "sotruss" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
sotruss \- trace shared library calls through PLT
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sotruss
[\fI\,OPTION\/\fR...] [\fI\,--\/\fR] \fI\,EXECUTABLE \/\fR[\fI\,EXECUTABLE-OPTION\/\fR...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sotruss 
is a small wrapper around
.B ld.so
that runs the specified
.I executable
until it exits. It intercepts and produce a trace of the dynamic library calls which
are called by the executed process via the Procedure Linkage Table (PLT). It
outputs the caller, the calle and the parameters as each call is executed.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-F\fR, \fB\-\-from\fR FROMLIST
Trace calls from objects on FROMLIST.
.TP
\fB\-T\fR, \fB\-\-to\fR TOLIST
Trace calls to objects on TOLIST.
.TP
\fB\-e\fR, \fB\-\-exit\fR
Also show exits from the function calls.
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-follow\fR
Trace child processes as they are created by currently traced processes as a result of the
.BR fork(2)
system call.
.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-output\fR FILENAME
Write output to FILENAME (or FILENAME. in case
\fB\-f\fR is also used) instead of standard error.
.TP
\-?, \fB\-\-help\fR
Give this help list
.TP
\fB\-\-usage\fR
Give a short usage message
.TP
\fB\-\-version\fR
Print program version
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Ulrich Drepper.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2013 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
.br
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ld.so(8).
