'\" t
.\" $Id: cdk_misc.3,v 1.22 2019/02/15 00:53:27 tom Exp $
.de XX
..
.TH cdk_misc 3
.SH NAME
.XX Beep
.XX CDKallocStrings
.XX CDKcountStrings
.XX CDKfreeChtypes
.XX CDKfreeStrings
.XX CDKsplitString
.XX baseName
.XX ceilCDK
.XX chlen
.XX chstrncpy
.XX chtype2Char
.XX cleanChar
.XX cleanChtype
.XX cmpStrChstr
.XX copyChar
.XX copyCharList
.XX copyChtype
.XX copyChtypeList
.XX dirName
.XX floorCDK
.XX freeChar
.XX freeCharList
.XX freeChtype
.XX freeChtypeList
.XX intlen
.XX lenCharList
.XX lenChtypeList
.XX mode2Char
.XX searchList
.XX sortList
cdk_misc - \fBCurses Development Kit\fR Miscellaneous Routines
.LP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.B cc
.RI "[ " "flag" " \|.\|.\|. ] " "file" " \|.\|.\|."
.B \-lcdk
.RI "[ " "library" " \|.\|.\|. ]"
.LP
#include <cdk.h>
.nf
.TP 15
.B "void Beep(void);
.TP 15
.B "unsigned CDKallocStrings("
.BI "char ***" "list"/,
.BI "char *" "item"/,
.BI "unsigned " "length"/,
.BI "unsigned " "used"/);
.TP 15
.B "unsigned CDKcountStrings ("
.BI "CDK_CONST char **\fIlist");
.TP 15
.B "void CDKfreeChtypes("
.BI "chtype **" "list");
.TP 15
.B "void CDKfreeStrings ("
.BI "char **" "list");
.TP 15
.B "char ** CDKsplitString ("
.BI "const char *" "string",
.BI "int " "splitChar);
.TP 15
.B "char * baseName ("
.BI "char *" "string");
.TP 15
.B "int ceilCDK("
.BI "double" "value");
.TP 15
.B "int chlen ("
.BI "const chtype *" "string");
.TP 15
.B "void chstrncpy(
.BI "char *" "dest",
.BI "const chtype *" "src",
.BI "int " "maxcount");
.TP 15
.B "char *chtype2Char ("
.BI "const chtype *" "string");
.TP 15
.B "void cleanChar ("
.BI "char *" "string",
.BI "int " "length",
.BI "char " "character");
.TP 15
.B "void cleanChtype ("
.BI "chtype *" "string",
.BI "int " "length",
.BI "chtype " "character");
.TP 15
.B "int cmpStrChstr("
.BI "const char *" "str",
.BI "const chtype *" "chstr");
.TP 15
.B "char *copyChar ("
.BI "const char *" "string");
.TP 15
.B "char **copyCharList ("
.BI "const char **" "list");
.TP 15
.B "chtype *copyChtype ("
.BI "const chtype *" "string");
.TP 15
.B "chtype **copyChtypeList ("
.BI "const chtype **" "list");
.TP 15
.B "char *dirName ("
.BI "char *" "filename");
.TP 15
.B "int floorCDK("
.BI "double " "value");
.TP 15
.B "void freeChar ("
.BI "char *" "string");
.TP 15
.B "void freeCharList ("
.BI "char **" "list",
.BI "unsigned " "size");
.TP 15
.B "void freeChtype ("
.BI "chtype *" "string");
.TP 15
.B void freeChtypeList ("
.BI "chtype **" "list",
.BI "unsigned " "size");
.TP 15
.B "int intlen ("
.BI "int " "value");
.TP 15
.B "int lenCharList ("
.BI "const char **" "list");
.TP 15
.B "int lenChtypeList ("
.BI "const chtype **" "list");
.TP 15
.B "int mode2Char ("
.BI "char *" "string",
.BI "mode_t " "fileMode");
.TP 15
.B "int searchList ("
.BI "CDK_CONST char * CDK_CONST *" "list",
.BI "int " "listSize",
.BI "const char *" "pattern");
.TP 15
.B "void sortList ("
.BI "CDK_CONST char **" "list",
.BI "int " "length");
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
These are miscellaneous functions
which may be useful with the Cdk widget set.
.SH AVAILABLE FUNCTIONS
.TP 5
.B Beep
makes an audible beep.
The standard curses beep() does not
flush the stream, so it will only beep until a force is made.
This forces a flush after issuing the beep command.
.TP 5
.B CDKallocStrings
Add a new string \fIitem\fP to a \fIlist\fP.
Keep a null pointer on the end so one may use
\fBCDKfreeStrings()\fP to deallocate the whole list.
The caller is responsible for updating the \fIlength\fP of the list.
The return value is the updated number of chars \fIused\fP.
.TP 5
.B CDKcountStrings
Count the number of items in a null-terminated \fIlist\fP of character strings.
Return the count.
.TP 5
.B CDKfreeChtypes
Free a \fIlist\fP of chtype-strings which is terminated by a null pointer.
.TP 5
.B CDKfreeStrings
Free a \fIlist\fP of character strings which is terminated by a null pointer.
Also free \fIlist\fR itself.
.TP 5
.B CDKsplitString
split the \fIstring\fP at each occurrence of \fIseparator\fP,
returning a pointer to a dynamically allocated array of the pieces.
The original \fIstring\fP is unmodified.
The caller is responsible for freeing the result.
.TP 5
.B baseName
returns a pointer to the first character of the filename in
the given pathname.
The result should be freed by the caller.
.TP 5
.B ceilCDK
Return an integer like the math library \fBceil()\fP, which returns a double.
.TP 5
.B chlen
returns the length of the (null-terminated) \fIstring\fP of chtype's.
.TP 5
.B chstrncpy
Extract the characters from a null-terminated array of chtype's \fIsrc\fP.
The size of the destination \fIdest\fP is given in \fImaxcount\fP.
.TP 5
.B chtype2Char
Extract the characters from a null-terminated array of chtype's \fIstring\fP.
A dynamically allocated string is returned.
The caller is responsible for freeing the result.
.TP 5
.B cleanChar
is analogous to \fImemset\fR.
Set the characters in \fIstring\fP to the given \fIcharacter\fP.
The length of \fIstring\fP is given by \fIlength\fP.
character which will be written.
.TP 5
.B cleanChtype
is analogous to \fImemset\fR.
Set the chtype's in \fIstring\fP to the given \fIcharacter\fP.
The length of \fIstring\fP is given by \fIlength\fP.
.TP 5
.B cmpStrChstr
Compare a char string \fIstr\fP to a chtype string \fIchstr\fP.
Return -1, 0 or 1 according to whether \fIstr\fP is less than, equal to
to greater than \fIchstr\fP.
.TP 5
.B copyChar
copies the string passed in.
Unlike \fIstrdup\fR this checks to see if the string is NULL before copying.
.TP 5
.B copyCharList
copies the given list.
.TP 5
.B copyChtype
function copies the string passed in, analogous to \fBcopyChar\fR, but
for chtype strings.
.TP 5
.B copyChtypeList
copies the given list.
.TP 5
.B dirName
Returns the directory for the given \fIfilename\fP,
i.e., the part before the * last slash.
The return value should be freed by the caller.
.TP 5
.B floorCDK
Return an integer like the math function floor(), which returns a double.
.TP 5
.B freeChar
is a wrapper for \fIfree\fR.
It checks to see if the string
is NULL before trying to free the string.
.TP 5
.B freeCharList
Free the memory used by the given \fIlist\fP of strings.
The number of strings to free is given by \fIsize\fP.
.TP 5
.B freeChtype
is a wrapper for \fIfree\fR, like \fIfreeChar\fR.
.TP 5
.B freeChtypeList
Free the memory used by the given \fIlist\fP of chtype strings.
The number of strings to free is given by \fIsize\fP.
.TP 5
.B intlen
returns the length of an integer, i.e., the number of characters
needed to represent it.
.TP 5
.B lenCharList
returns the length of the given list.
.TP 5
.B lenChtypeList
returns the length of the given list.
.TP 5
.B mode2Char
Given a file protection mode \fIfileMode\fP,
store a printable version of the permissions in \fIstring\fP,
formatted as if by "ls -l").
Return the corresponding permissions data,
i.e., ignoring the file-type bits.
.TP 5
.B searchList
Search the given \fIlist\fP of \fIlistSize\fP strings
for a subset of a word \fIpattern\fP in the given list.
Return the index in the list if it is found, or -1 if not found.
.TP 5
.B sortList
performs a quick sort of the given list.
This is a wrapper for qsort,
used to sort the \fIlist\fP of strings.
The number of strings in \fIlist\fP is given by \fIlength\fP.
The list is sorted alphabetically in increasing order.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cdk (3),
.BR cdk_screen (3),
.BR cdk_display (3),
.BR cdk_binding (3),
.BR cdk_util (3)
