.\" $Id: cdk_objs.3,v 1.6 2019/02/20 22:16:25 tom Exp $
.de XX
..
.ie \n(.g .ds `` \(lq
.el       .ds `` ``
.ie \n(.g .ds '' \(rq
.el       .ds '' ''
.TH cdk_objs 3
.SH NAME
.XX cleanCdkTitle
.XX drawCdkTitle
.XX getCdkTitle
.XX positionCDKObject
.XX setCDKObjectBackgroundColor
.XX setCDKObjectPostProcess
.XX setCDKObjectPreProcess
.XX setCdkExitType
.XX setCdkTitle
.XX validCDKObject
cdk_objs \- Cdk object-support functions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.B cc
.RI "[ " "flag" " \|.\|.\|. ] " "file" " \|.\|.\|."
.B \-lcdk
.RI "[ " "library" " \|.\|.\|. ]"
.LP
.nf
.TP 15
.B "void cleanCdkTitle ("
.BI "CDKOBJS *" "obj");
.TP 15
.B "void drawCdkTitle ("
.BI "WINDOW *" "window",
.BI "CDKOBJS *" "object");
.TP 15
.B "char * getCdkTitle ("
.BI "CDKOBJS *" "obj");
.TP 15
.B "void positionCDKObject ("
.BI "CDKOBJS *" "object",
.BI "WINDOW *" "win");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKObjectBackgroundColor ("
.BI "CDKOBJS *" "object",
.BI "const 3char *" "color");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKObjectPostProcess ("
.BI "CDKOBJS *" "object",
.BI "PROCESSFN " "func",
.BI "void *" "data");
.TP 15
.B "void setCDKObjectPreProcess ("
.BI "CDKOBJS *" "object",
.BI "PROCESSFN " "func",
.BI "void *" "data");
.TP 15
.B "void setCdkExitType("
.BI "CDKOBJS *" "obj",
.BI "EExitType *" "type",
.BI "chtyp " "ch");
.TP 15
.B "int setCdkTitle ("
.BI "CDKOBJS *" "obj",
.BI "const char *" "title",
.BI "int " "boxWidth");
.TP 15
.B "bool validCDKObject ("
.BI "CDKOBJS *" "obj");
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Cdk is written in ANSI C, which has "no" object support.
Most of the object support in Cdk is done using macros and a small number
of types which hold object information:
.RS 5
.TP 5
CDKFUNCS
contains the function pointers for common methods of the widgets.
It is separate from CDKOBJS because it is compiled into each widget's C code
(see the DeclareCDKObjects() and DeclareSetXXchar() macros.
The widget instances point to a single copy of CDKFUNCS for each widget.
.TP 5
CDKOBJS
Holds data common to all objects (widget instances).
It appears first in each widget's struct to allow Cdk
to use generic functions in binding.c, cdkscreen.c, position.c, etc.
.RE

.SH AVAILABLE FUNCTIONS
The functions declared in <cdk_objs.h> are used in situations where the
expressions are too complex for a macro.
.TP 5
.B cleanCdkTitle
Remove storage for the widget's title.
.TP 5
.B drawCdkTitle,
Draw the widget's title.
.TP 5
.B getCdkTitle
Returns the widget's title as a string.
Colors are encoded as described in \fBcdk_display\fP(3).
The lines of text in a multi-line title are separated by \*(``<#10>\*(''
markers (an encoded \fInewline\fP).
.TP 5
.B positionCDKObject
This allows the user to use the cursor keys to adjust the
position of the widget.
.TP 5
.B setCDKObjectBackgroundColor
Set the background color of the widget.
.TP 5
.B setCDKObjectPostProcess
Set data for postprocessing.
.TP 5
.B setCDKObjectPreProcess
Set data for preprocessing.
.TP 5
.B setCdkExitType
Set the object's exit-type based on the input.
The \fB.exitType\fP field should have been part of the CDKOBJS struct, but it
is used too pervasively in Cdk4 applications to move.
.TP 5
.B setCdkTitle
Set the widget's title.
.TP 5
.B validCDKObject 
Returns true if a "new" was done on the object but no "destroy".
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cdk_binding (3),
.BR cdk_display (3),
.BR cdk_process (3).
