'\" t
.\" $Id: cdk_util.3,v 1.14 2019/02/20 23:22:06 tom Exp $
.de bP
.ie n  .IP \(bu 4
.el    .IP \(bu 2
..
.ie \n(.g .ds `` \(lq
.el       .ds `` ``
.ie \n(.g .ds '' \(rq
.el       .ds '' ''
.de XX
..
.TH cdk_util 3
.SH NAME
.XX CDKgetDirectoryContents
.XX CDKreadFile
.XX alignxy
.XX char2Chtype
.XX char2DisplayType
.XX checkForLink
.XX chtype2String
.XX deleteCursesWindow
.XX eraseCursesWindow
.XX getListIndex
.XX getString
.XX justifyString
.XX mode2Filetype
.XX moveCursesWindow
.XX popupDialog
.XX popupLabel
.XX popupLabelAttrib
.XX selectFile
.XX setWidgetDimension
.XX stripWhiteSpace
.XX viewFile
.XX viewInfo
cdk_util \- Cdk utility functions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.B cc
.RI "[ " "flag" " \|.\|.\|. ] " "file" " \|.\|.\|."
.B \-lcdk
.RI "[ " "library" " \|.\|.\|. ]"
.LP
#include <cdk.h>
.nf
.TP 15
.B "int CDKgetDirectoryContents ("
.BI "const char *" "directory",
.BI "char ***" "list");
.TP 15
.B "int CDKreadFile ("
.BI "const char *" "filename",
.BI "char ***" "info");
.TP 15
.B "void alignxy ("
.BI "WINDOW *" "window",
.BI "int *" "xpos",
.BI "int *" "ypos",
.BI "int " "boxWidth",
.BI "int " "boxHeight");
.TP 15
.B "chtype *char2Chtype ("
.BI "const char *" "string",
.BI "int *" "length",
.BI "int *" "align");
.TP 15
.B "EDisplayType char2DisplayType ("
.BI "const char *" "string");
.TP 15
.B "int checkForLink ("
.BI "const char *" "line",
.BI "char *" "filename");
.TP 15
.B "char *chtype2String (
.BI "const chtype *" "string");
.TP 15
.B "void deleteCursesWindow ("
.BI "WINDOW *" "window");
.TP 15
.B "void eraseCursesWindow ("
.BI "WINDOW *" "window");
.TP 15
.B "int getListIndex ("
.BI "CDKSCREEN *" "screen",
.BI "const char *" "title",
.BI "CDK_CONST char **" "list",
.BI "int " "listSize",
.BI "boolean " "numbers");
.TP 15
.B "char *getString ("
.BI "CDKSCREEN *" "screen",
.BI "const char *" "title",
.BI "const char *" "label",
.BI "const char *" "init");
.TP 15
.B "int justifyString ("
.BI "int " "fieldWidth",
.BI "int " "mesglen",
.BI "int " "justify");
.TP 15
.B "int mode2Filetype ("
.BI "mode_t " "fileMode");
.TP 15
.B "void moveCursesWindow ("
.BI "WINDOW *" "window",
.BI "int " "xdiff",
.BI "int " "ydiff");
.TP 15
.B "int popupDialog ("
.BI "CDKSCREEN *" "screen",
.BI "CDK_CONST char **" "mesg",
.BI "int " "mesgCount",
.BI "CDK_CONST char **" "buttons",
.BI "int " "buttonCount");
.TP 15
.B "void popupLabel ("
.BI "CDKSCREEN *" "win",
.BI "CDK_CONST char **" "mesg",
.BI "int " "count");
.TP 15
.B "void popupLabelAttrib ("
.BI "CDKSCREEN *" "win",
.BI "CDK_CONST char **" "mesg",
.BI "int " "count",
.BI "chtype " "attribute");
.TP 15
.B "char *selectFile ("
.BI "CDKSCREEN *" "screen",
.BI "const char *" "title");
.TP 15
.B "int setWidgetDimension ("
.BI "int " "parentDim",
.BI "int " "proposedDim",
.BI "int " "adjustment");
.TP 15
.B "void stripWhiteSpace ("
.BI "EStripType " "stripType",
.BI "char *" "string");
.TP 15
.B "int viewFile ("
.BI "CDKSCREEN *" "screen",
.BI "const char *" "title",
.BI "const char *" "filename",
.BI "CDK_CONST char **" "buttons",
.BI "int " "buttonCount");
.TP 15
.B "int viewInfo ("
.BI "CDKSCREEN *" "screen",
.BI "const char *" "title",
.BI "CDK_CONST char **" "info",
.BI "int " "size",
.BI "CDK_CONST char **" "buttons",
.BI "int " "buttonCount",
.BI "boolean " "interpret");
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
These are utility functions that one may use to initialize,
build or customize widgets.
.
.SH AVAILABLE FUNCTIONS
.TP 5
.B CDKgetDirectoryContents
opens and reads the contents of the given directory, filling
the array \fBlist\fR with the sorted contents of the directory.
If the directory cannot be opened then it returns a value of -1.
.TP 5
.B CDKreadFile
Read the file \fIfilename\fP,
load the contents into a dynamically allocated array,
storing its address via \fIinfo\fP.
It returns the number of lines
read if the file could be opened, -1 otherwise.
.TP 5
.B alignxy
Aligns a box on the given \fIwindow\fP with the height and width given.
See cdk_position (3) for the interpretation of the
\fIxpos\fP,
\fIypos\fP,
\fIboxWidth\fP and
\fIboxHeight\fP,
parameters.
.TP 5
.B char2Chtype
Translate a character \fIstring\fP with embedded format markers
(e.g., \*(``</X/Y>Blah Blah\*('')
to a null-terminated array of chtype's.
.RS
.bP
The length of the array is stored via the \fIlength\fP parameter.
.bP
The \fBalign\fR parameter contains justification information
(LEFT, CENTER, RIGHT).
.IP
The caller is responsible for freeing the result.
.RE
.IP
See \fBcdk_display\fP(3) for details on formatting.
.TP 5
.B char2DisplayType
Lookup the given name in \fIstring\fP and return the equivalent display type.
See also cdk_display (3).
.TP 5
.B checkForLink
Check if the given \fIline\fP is of the form
.RS
<F=\fIfilename\fP>
.RE
.IP
If so, extract the filename from the line, storing it in the \fIfilename\fP
buffer (which must hold at least CDK_PATHMAX characters).
Return nonzero if a filename is extracted.
.TP 5
.B chtype2String
Extract the characters and formatting information
from a null-terminated array of chtype's \fIstring\fP.
A dynamically allocated string is returned.
.IP
See \fBcdk_display\fP(3) for details on Cdk's formatting.
.IP
In addition, this function supports a feature needed to represent
multi-line title strings returned by \fBgetCdkTitle\fP (see \fBcdk_objs\fP(3)).
Each newline separating lines in the title
is represented by \*(``<#10>\*('' to
allow Cdk to display the string in a text field.
.TP 5
.B deleteCursesWindow
Safely delete a given window,
i.e., first check if the \fIwindow\fP parameter is nonnull.
.TP 5
.B eraseCursesWindow
Safely erase a given window,
i.e., first check if the \fIwindow\fP parameter is nonnull.
.TP 5
.B getListIndex
Display a scrollable list of strings in a dialog,
allow the user to select one.
Return the index in the list of the value selected.
.RS
.bP
The \fIlist\fP parameter contains the strings to display;
there are \fIlistSize\fP strings in the list.
.bP
If \fInumbers\fP is true, the displayed list items will be numbered.
.RE
.TP 5
.B getString
pops up an entry widget with
.RS
.bP
a title supplied by the value
of the \fBtitle\fR parameter,
.bP
a label supplied by the \fBlabel\fR parameter,
and
.bP
an initial value supplied by the \fBinitialValue\fR parameter.
.RE
.IP
It returns
a pointer to the value typed in or NULL if the widget was exited early.
.TP 5
.B justifyString
Given a string length \fImesglen\fP,
the available field width \fIfieldWidth\fP
and a justification type \fIjustify\fP,
return the number of characters by which to shift the string.
.TP 5
.B mode2Filetype
Given a file protection mode \fIfileMode\fP,
return ignoring the file-type bits,
i.e., ignoring the corresponding permissions data.
.TP 5
.B moveCursesWindow
Move a given \fIwindow\fP by the amounts in \fIxdiff\fP and \fIydiff\fP.
.TP 5
.B popupDialog
creates a quick pop-up dialog box.
Pass in
.RS
.bP
the message in the \fBmesg\fR parameter,
.bP
the size of the message in the \fBmesgCount\fR parameter,
.bP
the button labels in the \fBbuttons\fR parameter and
.bP
the number of buttons in the \fBbuttonCount\fR parameter.
.RE
.IP
The dialog box will be centered on the screen.
.TP 5
.B popupLabel
creates a quick pop-up label widget.
.IP
The message and the size of
the message are passed in via
the \fBmesg\fR and \fBcount\fR parameters respectively.
.IP
The label widget waits until the user hits a character and is centered
on the screen.
.TP 5
.B popupLabelAttrib
Display a simple dialog with
a list of \fIcount\fP message strings \fImesg\fP.
Use the given \fIattribute\fP for the background of the dialog.
.TP 5
.B selectFile
Display a file-selection dialog.
Return the selected filename, or null if none is selected.
The caller should free the return-value.
.TP 5
.B setWidgetDimension
This is a helper function used to set the height/width of a widget:
.RS
.bP
If the proposed dimension \fIproposedDim\fP is FULL or zero,
the return value will be \fIparentDim\fP.
.bP
If the proposed dimension \fIproposedDim\fP is positive,
.RS
.bP
and it is larger than \fIparentDim\fP, return \fIproposedDim\fP,
.bP
otherwise return \fIproposedDim\fP plus \fIadjustment\fP.
.RE
.bP
If the proposed dimension \fIproposedDim\fP is negative,
the return value will be \fIparentDim\fP plus \fIproposedDim\fP.
.bP
Otherwise, the return value will be \fIproposedDim\fP.
.RE
.TP 5
.B stripWhiteSpace
Strip whitespace from the front and/or back of the given \fIstring\fP.
.IP
The \fIstripType\fP parameter controls the type of stripping done:
vFRONT, vBACK or vBOTH.
.TP 5
.B viewFile
Read the file specified by \fIfilename\fP and display it in a CDKVIEWER window.
The \fItitle\fP, \fIbuttons\fP and \fIbuttonCount\fP are applied to the
CDKVIEWER window.
.RS
.bP
The viewer shows
the contents of the file supplied by the \fBfilename\fR value.
.bP
The buttons on
the file viewer are supplied by the \fBbuttons\fR parameter.
.RE
.IP
It returns the index of the button selected,
or -1 if the file does not exist or if the widget was exited early.
.LP
.TS
center tab(/) allbox;
l l
l l
lw15 lw35 .
\fBStrip_Type/Result\fR
=
vFRONT/T{
This tells the function to remove
all of the white space from the
front of the given string.
T}
vBACK/T{
This tells the function to remove
all of the white space from the
back of the given string.
T}
vBOTH/T{
This tells the function to remove
all of the white space from both
the front and the back of the given string.
T}
.TE
.TP 5
.B viewInfo
Display the list of strings in \fIinfo\fP in a CDKVIEWER window.
The number of strings is given by \fIsize\fP.
The \fItitle\fP, \fIbuttons\fP and \fIbuttonCount\fP are applied to the
CDKVIEWER window.
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cdk_dialog (3),
.BR cdk_display (3),
.BR cdk_misc (3),
.BR cdk_objs (3),
.BR cdk_position (3).
